### 1. Lambda Expressions & Functional Interfaces

In Java, a functional interface is an interface that has a single abstract method. It is also known as a "single abstract method (SAM) type". A functional interface can have any number of default methods (methods with a default implementation) or static methods, but it can have only one abstract method.

Here is an example of a functional interface:

```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface MyFunctionalInterface {
  void doSomething();
}
```

The `@FunctionalInterface` annotation is optional, but it is good practice to use it to ensure that the interface is indeed a functional interface. The annotation will cause a compile-time error if the interface has more than one abstract method.

Functional interfaces are used as the basis for lambda expressions, which are a concise way to represent a function as a block of code. You can use a lambda expression to implement the abstract method of a functional interface.

For example, here is a lambda expression that implements the `doSomething` method of `MyFunctionalInterface`:

```java
MyFunctionalInterface myFunction = () -> System.out.println("Hello World!");
myFunction.doSomething();
```


We can use functional interfaces anywhere we would use an interface with a single abstract method. Some common examples of functional interfaces in the Java Standard Library include `Runnable`, `Callable`, and `Comparator`.

###### We can use a `Runnable` functional interface to specify a block of code to be executed by a thread:

```java
Thread t = new Thread(() -> System.out.println("Hello World!"));
t.start();
```

###### We can use a `Callable` functional interface to specify a block of code that returns a value and can throw an exception:

```java
Callable<Integer> task = () -> 42;
ExecutorService executor = Executors.newSingleThreadExecutor();
Future<Integer> future = executor.submit(task);
```